SCOTT VANDEHEY

Front-End Web Developer
Online Portfolio: http://spaceninja.com/port/
Linkedin: http://www.linkedin.com/in/scottvandehey

I am a CSS ninja from Portland, Oregon who has been making websites for over 15 years. Between my education in graphic design and my experience working alongside programmers, I specialize in bridging the gap between design and development.

EXPERIENCE

Burnside Digital, 04/11 - present
Senior Front-End Developer
Provide front-end production for selected clients including Food Network. Push client adoption of mobile support and CSS3 standards like media queries and @font-face. Drive adoption of maintenance-focused best-practices and expansion of front-end as a discipline in the organization. Speaking at conferences and blogging. Revamped company blogging strategy and overhauled company branding.

Burnside Digital, 07/12 - 01/13
Creative Director
Head of the newly established creative team, consisting of front-end developers and UX designers. Responsible for establishing overall creative team direction and strategy, as well as coordinating with biz-dev team to promote these services to our clients. Resumed my former duties as a front-ender when the position was eliminated during a restructuring.

Metal Toad Media, 01/10 - 3/11
Front-End Web Developer
Created standards-compliant sites for a variety of clients, including Limewire and the Emmys. Most of these were Drupal themes utilizing CSS3, XHTML/HTML5, and jQuery. Helped to promote social media as a marketing tool, including Twitter, Facebook and blogging. Created a Drupal 7 base theme using HTML5, and began speaking at conferences about HTML5, Drupal theming, and web standards.

Pop Art, Inc., 11/05 - 10/09
Front-End Web Developer
CSS and XHTML production of large-scale web sites. Worked closely with designers and programmers, applying design comps to functionality. Advocated a web-standards approach to increase search engine optimization and accessibility. Worked to promote blogging as a internal and external communication and promotional tool. Required excellent communication skills, self-motivation and technical expertise.

Luxury Real Estate, 03/05 - 07/05
Web Designer
Assisted in design and production of several large-scale luxury realty web sites. Primary duties included implementing design comps using standards-compliant XHTML and CSS. Personally led efforts to implement blog technology into standard design and hosting packages offered to clients. Job required creativity, speed, communication skills and initiative.

Registration Resources, 11/01 - 12/04
Web Developer
Worked closely with and coordinated programmers to design, develop, and test a complete suite of online registration programs. Responsible for overall interface design and usability of each program. Interacted directly with clients to install and customize products, as well as deliver training. Job required adaptability, thoroughness, and long-term thinking.

SKILLS

Specialties: Web standards, CSS3, HTML5, jQuery, Photoshop, Fireworks, Wordpress, Drupal, Hand-Coding, Browser Testing, Blogging.

Interests: public speaking, web standards, web design, web development, video games, science fiction

EDUCATION

Portland State University, Portland, OR, Class of 2000
Bachelor of Science in Graphic Design

Grant High School, Portland, OR, Class of 1996
Interactive Science and Math program

REFERENCES

Chuck Vose
Lead Instructor
Portland Code School

Thom Schoenborn
VP of Marketing
Instructional Technologies, Inc.

Libby Molina
Front-End Web Developer
Burnside Digital

Patrick Curtain
Agile Mentor
Burnside Digital

(contact info upon request)

TESTIMONIALS

"Scott was great to work with, absolutely open to my design ideas... He is always responsive, quickly isolating and fixing issues. I highly recommend his work!"
-- Sara Ryan, client

"I worked with Scott at Pop Art from 2006-2009, and my standards for web site development are now considerably higher than they were before I began working with him. With his design background, he has an eye for producing great looking, standards-compliant web sites that are as easy to update as they are to look at... I would highly recommend Scott for any web work, and look forward to working with him again."
-- Dave Selden, coworker

"Scott's an absolute pro when it comes to coding. You will find very few people as driven as Scott to stay at the cutting edge of web design and usability, as well as the code necessary to combine them... Scott's diplomacy, communications, and ability to teach make him an incredibly valuable asset."
-- Thom Schoenborn, coworker
